# 1. Constructing an FIR Filter in C++ and Gnuplot

- [1. Constructing an FIR Filter in C++ and Gnuplot](#1-constructing-an-fir-filter-in-c-and-gnuplot)
  - [1.1. About this repository](#11-about-this-repository)
  - [1.2. Filtering as a sub-domain of DSP](#12-filtering-as-a-sub-domain-of-dsp)
  - [1.3. Key](#13-key)
    - [1.3.1. Signals](#131-signals)
    - [1.3.2. Signal Processing](#132-signal-processing)
    - [Domains of a Signal](#domains-of-a-signal)
      - [Time Domain](#time-domain)
    - [1.3.3. Analog and Digital Signals](#133-analog-and-digital-signals)
      - [Analog Signals](#analog-signals)
      - [Digital Signals](#digital-signals)
      - [What's the difference?](#whats-the-difference)

## 1.1. About this repository
This minor project in Digital Signal Processing (DSP) is to implement a Finite Impulse Response (FIR) filtering application of continuous data in C++ using the concept of a circular buffer. 

The plotting of the filtered continuous data/signal is done in gnuplot in addition to the comparison of the signal before processing and after the FIR filter is applied. This plotting is done by sending data to the gnuplot application with a piping method.

## 1.2. Filtering as a sub-domain of DSP
Filtering is a class of signal processing wherein a device, known as the filter, removes some of the components or features from a signal. The defining feature of filters is the complete or partial suppression of some aspect of the signal inputted to the filter.

The Finite Impulse Response filter is a filter that has a finite impulse response duration. Meaning, the filter will settle to zero at a finite time. A very common application of FIR filter is for removing high frequency noise, that is as a low-pass filter.

## 1.3. Key
### 1.3.1. Signals
In signal processing, a signal is a function that conveys information about a phenomenon. Any quantity that can vary over space or time can be used as a signal to share messages between observers. 

An important property of a signal is its entropy or information content. Information theory serves as the formal study of signals and their content. The information of a signal is often accompanied by noise, which primarily refers to unwanted modifications of signals, but is often extended to include unwanted signals conflicting with desired signals (crosstalk). 

The reduction of noise is covered in part under the heading of signal integrity. The separation of desired signals from background noise is the field of signal recovery, one branch of which is estimation theory, a probabilistic approach to suppressing random disturbances. 

### 1.3.2. Signal Processing
Signal processing is an electrical engineering subfield that focuses on analysing, modifying, and synthesizing signals such as sound, images, and scientific measurements. Signal processing techniques can be used to improve transmission, storage efficiency and subjective quality and to also emphasize or detect components of interest in a measured signal.

### Domains of a Signal
#### Time Domain

### 1.3.3. Analog and Digital Signals
#### Analog Signals
Analog signal processing is a type of signal processing conducted on continuous analog signals by some analog means (as opposed to the discrete digital signal processing where the signal processing is carried out by a digital process). Analog values are typically represented as a voltage, electric current, or electric charge around components in the electronic devices. An error or noise affecting such physical quantities will result in a corresponding error in the signals represented by such physical quantities.

Examples of analog signal processing include crossover filters in loudspeakers, "bass", "treble" and "volume" controls on stereos, and "tint" controls on TVs. Common analog processing elements include capacitors, resistors and inductors (as the passive elements) and transistors or opamps (as the active elements). 

#### Digital Signals
Digital signal processing (DSP) is the use of digital processing, such as by computers or more specialized digital signal processors, to perform a wide variety of signal processing operations. The digital signals processed in this manner are a sequence of numbers that represent samples of a continuous variable in a domain such as time, space, or frequency. In digital electronics, a digital signal is represented as a pulse train, which is typically generated by the switching of a transistor.

Digital signal processing is the processing of digitized discrete-time sampled signals. Processing is done by general-purpose computers or by digital circuits such as ASICs, field-programmable gate arrays or specialized digital signal processors (DSP chips). Typical arithmetical operations include fixed-point and floating-point, real-valued and complex-valued, multiplication and addition. Other typical operations supported by the hardware are circular buffers and lookup tables. Examples of algorithms are the fast Fourier transform (FFT), finite impulse response (FIR) filter, Infinite impulse response (IIR) filter, and adaptive filters such as the Wiener and Kalman filters. 

#### What's the difference?
- *Analog* indicates something that is mathematically represented as a set of continuous values. This differs from *digital* which uses a series of discrete quantities to represent signal.
- Analog signals are those signals which are continuous in time domain. It may be discrete or continuous in magnitude domain (value).
Digital signals are those which are discrete in both magnitude and time domain.

